Libosinfo (Part I) (#1)
fidencio/fidencio.org: content/posts/2019-10-16-libosinfo-part-I.md

---
title: Libosinfo (Part I)
date: 2019-10-16
tags: ["virt", "gnome", "fedora"]
draft: true
---

This is the first blog post of a series which will cover Libosinfo, what it is,
who uses it, how it is used, how to manage it, and, finally, how to contribute
to it.

### A quick overview

Libosinfo is **the** operating system information database. As a project, it
consists of three different parts, with the goal to provide a single place
containing all the information about an operating system that is required in
order to provision and manage it in a virtualized environment.

> The project allows management application to:

Reviewer: 'a management application' or 'applications'

  database locations;

### The consumers ...

Libosinfo and osinfo-db have management applications as their target audience.
Currently the libosinfo project is consumed by big players in the virtual
machine management environment such as [OpenStack Nova]
(https://docs.openstack.org/nova/latest/), [virt-manager]
(https://virt-manager.org), [GNOME Boxes] (https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Boxes),
and [Cockpit Machines]
(https://cockpit-project/guide/latest/feature-virtualmachines).

#### ... a little bit about them ...

* [OpenStack Nova] (https://docs.openstack.org/nova/latest/): An [OpenStack]
  (https://www.openstack.org/) project that provides a way to provision virtual
  machines, baremetal servers, and (limited sypported for) system containers.

* [virt-manager] (https://virt-manager.org): An application for managing
  virtual machines through libvirt.

* [GNOME Boxes] (https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Boxes): A simple application to
  view, access, and manage remote and virtual systems.

* [Cockpit Machines]
  (https://cockpit-project/guide/latest/feature-virtualmachines): A [Cockpit]
  (https://cockpit-project.org/) extension to manage virtual machines running
  on the host.

> #### ... and for what they use it

Reviewer: "what they use it for" sounds better to my ears

> #### ... and for what they use it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### ... and why they use it
```

> * **Download ISOs**: As libosinfo provides the ISOs URLs, management

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Download ISOs**: As libosinfo provides the ISO URLs, management
```

  applications can offer the user the option to download a specific a specific
  operating system;

    - [ ] OpenStack Nova
    - [ ] virt-manager
    - [x] GNOME Boxes
    - [ ] Cockpit Machines

* **Automatically detect the ISO being used**: As libosinfo can detect the
  operating system of an ISO, managament applications can use this info to
  set reasonable default values for resources, to select the hardware
  supported, and to perform unattended installations.

    - [ ] OpenStack Nova
    - [x] virt-manager
    - [x] GNOME Boxes
    - [x] Cockpit Machines

> * **Start tree installations**: As libosinfo provides the tree installations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Start tree installations**: As libosinfo provides the tree installation
```

* **Download ISOs**: As libosinfo provides the ISOs URLs, management

>   applications can offer the user the option to download a specific a specific

Reviewer: duplicate "a specific"

  operating system;

    - [ ] OpenStack Nova
    - [ ] virt-manager
    - [x] GNOME Boxes
    - [ ] Cockpit Machines

> * **Start tree installations**: As libosinfo provides the tree installations

Reviewer: installation

>   libosinfo has the values, which are the ones recommended by the operating

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  libosinfo knows the values that are recommended by the operating
```

  URLs, management applications can use it to start a network-based
  installation without having to download the whole operating system ISO;

    - [ ] OpenStack Nova
    - [x] virt-manager (via virt-install)
    - [ ] GNOME Boxes
    - [ ] Cockpit Machines

* **Automatically set the hardware supported**: As libosinfo provides the list
  of hardware supported by an operating system, management applications can

>   choose which hardware to use either base in this information;

Reviewer: something is missing in this phrase.

>   choose which hardware to use either base in this information;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  choose which hardware to use based on this information;
```

    - [x] OpenStack Nova
    - [x] virt-manager
    - [x] GNOME Boxes
    - [x] Cockpit Machines (via virt-install)

> * **Unattend install**: as libosinfo provides unattended installations scripts

Reviewer: Unattended install

  for CentOS, Debian, Fedora, Fedora Silverblue, Microsoft Windows, OpenSUSE,

>   Red Hat Enterprise Linux, and Ubuntu, managament applications can perform

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Red Hat Enterprise Linux, and Ubuntu, management applications can perform
```
